= Pillboxr

Pillboxr is a Ruby wrapper for the National Library of Medicine Pillbox API Service located at http://pillbox.nlm.nih.gov/PHP/pillboxAPIService.php.

The pillbox API provides information from the FDA about various prescription medications.

Pillboxr inherits from ActiveResource to perform it's XML wrapping so ActiveResource 3.* or 2.3.* is a requirement for using the wrapper.  Please see the doc directory for documentation on using the library.

= Usage

Getting started is fairly easy:

	$ gem install pillboxr

	>> require 'pillboxr' # You may have to require rubygems first

	>> Pillboxr.api_key = 'YOUR API KEY HERE' # See below for directions on obtaining an API key
	
	>> Pillboxr.all(:params => {:has_image => 1}) # Find all pills in the database with images associated

The params hash may include any of the following parameters:

	'color'       => 'string' or Array with multiple colors (see http://pillbox.nlm.nih.gov/API-documentation.html)
	'score'       =>  integer
	'ingredient'  => 'string' or Array with multiple ingredients (returned results include all ingredients) 
	'inactive'    => 'string' 
	'dea'         => 'string' or any of 'I, II, III, IV, V'
	'author'      => 'string'
	'shape'       => 'string' (Shape or Hex)
	'imprint'     => 'string'
	'prodcode'    => 'string' (Product Code: see http://pillbox.nlm.nih.gov/API-documentation.html)
	'has_image'   => 0 or 1 for no image present or image present respectively
	'size'        => integer for size in millimeters (currently this encompasses a range of +/- 2 mm)
	'lower_limit' => integer for which returned record to start at (currently non-functional)
	
Please see specific files or the document directory for specific usage examples. Further API documentation available on project homepage: http://pillbox.nlm.nih.gov/NLM_Pillbox_API_documentation_v2_2011.09.27.pdf

= KNOWN BUGS

* Please note that some XML in the Pillbox API is unescaped.

API provided through the generous support by the FDA in both money and resources. Work conducted by NLM at NIH.

Please contact david.hale at nlm.nih.gov for an api key. There is no bandwidth limit currently.

Data is owned by companies, mandatorily licenced for X purposes.